README.md, before:


# drust.se web application

## Setup

1. Install nodejs and npm

2. Run `npm install`

3. Run `npm start` to start the server

## Usage

### Adding a user
To add a new user, use this command:
```
nodejs server.js --name=UserName --passw=Password
```

## Contribute

### Adding a view

1. Add new pug file in /views folder.

2. Add these lines:
  ```pug
  extends ./base.pug

  block title
      title= title
      
  block includes
      //- Include stylesheets or js files here

  block content
      article
          //- Add stuff here
  ```
  [Pug documentation](http://jade-lang.com/reference/)
3. In server.js add:
  ```javascript
  
  app.get('/$path',(req, res) => { res.render('$name', {title:'$title'}); });
  
  ```
  where 
  `$path` is the subfolder in the url that you want,
  `$name` is the name of the pug file,
  `$title` is the title you want for the view.

### About Javascript

#### Adding new files
If you add a new js file to the server/backend, use `.js` file extension as newer nodejs versions support many ES6 features so we don't need to use babel.

If you add a new js file to the frontend (public/js), use the `.es6` file extension so babel can convert it to ES5 code. Never use `.js` as that file extension is ignored by git in that folder.

#### Coding style
Always 
``` javascript
  'use strict';
```

If you know that your variable value won't change, declare it like this:
``` javascript
  const variable = 10;
```
otherwise
``` javascript
  let variable = 10;
```
Never use ```var```.

[Some ES6 features](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)

#### Javascript in script tags

If you want to use inline javascript, use the `:babel` filter to convert to ES5.

Example:
```javascript    
script
  :babel
      class Person {
          constructor(name){
              this.name = name;
          }
      }
      var pers = new Person('taira');
      console.log(pers.name);
```

### About SCSS
Try to write your scss in a new file or in one existing that makes sense and then import the module to `layout.scss`. Add an underscore as prefix to your .scss file, like `_example.scss` and then import it in `layout.scss` with 
```scss
  @import 'example'
```

For Sass/SCSS documentation:
[Doc](http://sass-lang.com/guide)

Commit message:

Update setup instructions to mention grunt and mongodb

README.md, after:


# drust.se web application

## Setup

1. Install nodejs, npm, and mongodb

2. Run `npm install`

3. Add local install of `grunt-cli` to path, or install globally with `npm install -g grunt-cli`

4. Start the mongodb daemon

5. Run `npm start` to start the server

## Usage

### Adding a user
To add a new user, use this command:
```
nodejs server.js --name=UserName --passw=Password
```

## Contribute

### Adding a view

1. Add new pug file in /views folder.

2. Add these lines:
  ```pug
  extends ./base.pug

  block title
      title= title

  block includes
      //- Include stylesheets or js files here

  block content
      article
          //- Add stuff here
  ```
  [Pug documentation](http://jade-lang.com/reference/)
3. In server.js add:
  ```javascript

  app.get('/$path',(req, res) => { res.render('$name', {title:'$title'}); });

  ```
  where
  `$path` is the subfolder in the url that you want,
  `$name` is the name of the pug file,
  `$title` is the title you want for the view.

### About Javascript

#### Adding new files
If you add a new js file to the server/backend, use `.js` file extension as newer nodejs versions support many ES6 features so we don't need to use babel.

If you add a new js file to the frontend (public/js), use the `.es6` file extension so babel can convert it to ES5 code. Never use `.js` as that file extension is ignored by git in that folder.

#### Coding style
Always
``` javascript
  'use strict';
```

If you know that your variable value won't change, declare it like this:
``` javascript
  const variable = 10;
```
otherwise
``` javascript
  let variable = 10;
```
Never use ```var```.

[Some ES6 features](https://babeljs.io/docs/learn-es2015/)

#### Javascript in script tags

If you want to use inline javascript, use the `:babel` filter to convert to ES5.

Example:
```javascript
script
  :babel
      class Person {
          constructor(name){
              this.name = name;
          }
      }
      var pers = new Person('taira');
      console.log(pers.name);
```

### About SCSS
Try to write your scss in a new file or in one existing that makes sense and then import the module to `layout.scss`. Add an underscore as prefix to your .scss file, like `_example.scss` and then import it in `layout.scss` with
```scss
  @import 'example'
```

For Sass/SCSS documentation:
[Doc](http://sass-lang.com/guide)
